Project Abstract:

Our project intends to offer services to gamers by displaying stat, tracking, and statistical analysis of player performance, and champion matchups in the game League of Legends. A user will be able to sign up to our site and view their ingame match history and performance. The site will track important metrics, such as kills, deaths, and assists, as well as gold income damage output and more to gauge ingame performance, track progression and improvement, and identify which of these pertains to higher winning chances. Our program could even offer players ingame win prediction, based on opponents’ match history and champion picks if we can gain approval for this API key. In addition, our project could include a discord bot interface to display these features as discord is the preferred communication of gamers.

Our project aims to give gamers a platform to view and track their progress in key game metrics. While there are currently many sites that offer similar services, ours intends to focus on statistics (damage, creep score, gold income) and track these for players over time in order to show trends. Furthermore, our app will be a competitive replacement to other sites because it will not have any long term tracking features locked behind paywalls like many currently do (such as the site: https://mobalytics.gg/blog/lol-tier-list-for-climbing-solo-queue/)

The project will have multiple epic sized features, such as the discord integration, website frontend, along with nice visuals, such as charts or graphs to show statistics. Additionally, the backend component will store site users and their matches and run analysis on game metrics to determine performance. The structure of this project allows us to be flexible in workflow, as there are only a few essential aspects, yet a plethora of features can be added depending on time constraints. League of Legends is a massively complex game that gives hundreds of avenues for different metrics our site could track and analyze.

For League players, there is often a question of which aspects of League matter the most when it comes to scoring wins. At the end of each League game, a graph containing the damage of each player comes up, leading players to highly correlate dealing damage as the singular most important aspect of the game. But, there is so much more, such as objectives, towers, minion kills, crowd control (abilities that slow down or temporarily stun enemies), healing, shielding, warding, etc. This program intends to shed light on which of these aspects correlates highest with winning and additionally make it easy for users to identify a player’s strengths and weaknesses.
